Biography

Since 2004, I have been traveling all across the US with my continuously evolving marimba+electronics system, performing solo marimba and marimba+electronics repertoire in a wide variety of venues: art museums, concert halls, dance spaces, DIY/underground spaces, and many universities and colleges. Visits to academic institutions often include master classes, lectures, and demos.

My mobile electroacoustic diffusion rig began in 2004 with a stereo loudspeaker setup, moving to four-channel surround in 2005, then on to my first eight-channel (cube) three-dimensional surround setup in 2006, and finally upgrading to my current cube setup in 2011. During the first years of performing in my marimba+electronics format, a handful of composers wrote several new works for me, but since 2011 I have focused almost exclusively on the performance of my own compositions.

Ongoing work with computer monitor-based real-time notation in my marimba+electronics compositions began around 2008. Through real-time computer notation processing, I am able to combine the flexibility and spontaneity of improvisation, with the complex organizational capabilities of a notated score.

In 2007, I founded an ongoing concert series to feature my new work at the Overture Center for the Arts, in Madison, Wisconsin. The Overture Center series has hosted the premieres of many of my works, as well as the works of other composers, and has featured collaborations with other musicians, and collaborations with artists working in other media such as dance, video art, and sculpture. It was on this series (2014) that I launched the SSAL Fixed Media Repertoire Project with a concert featuring the historic multi-channel electronic works Kontakte and Gesang Der Jünglinge, by Karlheinz Stockhausen.

After much experimentation, I completed the initial work (it continues to progress) on my notation system for acoustic works in 2010, and have subsequently created a growing body of work composed in this system. The system uses multiple colors and other graphic devices in order to achieve maximum clarity, and is in general an attempt to visually represent the artistic sensibilities of the music for the performers as intuitively as possible. In order to expand my catalog of acoustic works, and record them in multi-channel, high-definition formats, I launched the The SSAL Guest Artist Recording Project in 2015, with my solo percussion work apical topography.

Recordings in multi-channel (surround), high-definition formats are central to my work, and to facilitate these projects, I designed and built a semi-mobile studio named Sound-Space Audio Lab. SSAL has been set up in several different locations (Madison, WI; Placitas, NM; Middleton, WI), and is currently located in a quiet rural valley near New Glarus, WI.

I hold a Doctor of Musical Arts degree in music composition from the University of Wisconsin–­Madison (Stephen Dembski), a Postgraduate Diploma in marimba performance from the Royal Academy of Music (Leigh Howard Stevens), a Bachelor of Music in percussion performance from the Eastman School of Music (John Beck), and studied privately with L.H. Stevens.

From 2011 to 2013 I was a postdoctoral associate at the Wisconsin Institute for Discovery, working on music + technology projects.

Born, 1978, in Madison, Wisconsin (USA).