Marimba; Real-Time Three-Dimensional, High-Definition, Computer-Generated Sound; and Real-Time Computer Notation Processing

My performances seamlessly meld my five-octave acoustic marimba with a powerful Linux-based computer, custom computer control interfaces, a variety of hardware audio electronics, and eight loudspeakers (plus subwoofer) arranged in a cube. With the audience positioned in the center of the loudspeaker cube, an elaborate, kinetic, three-dimensional sound environment can be projected into the audience space, totally immersing the listeners in the music. In my immersive sound environments, spatialization (the positioning and movement of sounds in physical space) becomes a central musical parameter, alongside of pitch, rhythm/time, timbre, and so on.

The sound environments of my compositions are comprised of sounds culled from many sources and techniques, including digital audio manipulations of my live marimba, digital audio manipulations of recorded acoustic sounds stored on my computer, and synthetically engineered sounds. The intricate three-dimensional sound environments of my works are further enriched by the use of high-definition audio, which allows for a significant increase in sonic nuances.

In my performance rig, two computer monitors are used in place of a conventional music stand. The music notation, now free from the physical realm of paper and ink, is created and manipulated in real time, just as the computer-generated sounds are created and manipulated in real time.

I designed my performance rig for maximum mobility without compromising audio quality, and have  performed all across the US in a wide variety of venues, such as art galleries and museums, concert halls, dance spaces, DIY/underground spaces, and many universities and colleges. In order to present my music in its original three-dimensional, high-definition form at every performance, I always tour with all my own electronic equipment and marimba.

Recordings of my original compositions and other projects -- all on multi-channel, high-resolution media -- can be found on Albany Records, and on my own label, Sound-Space Audio Lab.

I perform on a Malletech Imperial Grand five-octave marimba, and use a custom, silent (true 0dB) computer created byendpcnoise.com.